
### Table of Contents

1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [Business Understanding](#business)
3. [Data Understanding](#data)
3. [File Descriptions](#files)
4. [Results](#results)
5. [Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements](#licensing)

## Installation <a name="installation"></a>

There should be no necessary libraries to run the code here beyond the Anaconda distribution of Python.  The code should run with no issues using Python versions 3.*.

## Business Understanding <a name="business"></a>

This analsyis is around video games sales. The questions I am trying to answer are:

1. What is the most successful game across all platforms in terms of sales since 1980?
2. Who are the top publishers for the three highest selling genre?
3. How have different platforms fared across the years in terms of total sales?

## Data Understanding <a name="data"></a>
I have used [Kaggle Video Games Sales data](https://www.kaggle.com/gregorut/videogamesales) for this project. This dataset contains 16,598 records, a list of video games with sales greater than 100,000 copies. It was generated by a scrape of [vgchartz.com](http://www.vgchartz.com/). It contains data spanning from 1980 to 2020.

Below is the data dictionary:

    1. Rank - Ranking of overall sales
    2. Name - The games name
    3. Platform - Platform of the games release (i.e. PC,PS4, etc.)
    4. Year - Year of the game's release
    5. Genre - Genre of the game
    6. Publisher - Publisher of the game
    7. NA_Sales - Sales in North America (in millions)
    8. EU_Sales - Sales in Europe (in millions)
    9. JP_Sales - Sales in Japan (in millions)
    10. Other_Sales - Sales in the rest of the world (in millions)
    11. Global_Sales - Total worldwide sales.

## Prepare Data:
1. Upon doing some EDA, we noticed that almost 2% of rows had missing values. The Year column makes up almost for almost 1.6% of those rows whereas Publisher makes up for the remaining rows. Given that these amount to only ~370 rows, we ended up dropping them. Another option could have been imputing the rows with most frequent values.

2. We also changed the data type for Year from object to datetime.

## File Descriptions <a name="files"></a>


    Data
    ├── vgsales.csv               # The csv with the necesary data
    
    Notebook
    ├── Video Game Sales.ipynb    # The notebook with the analysis
    
    README.md


## Results<a name="results"></a>

The main findings of the code can be found at the post available [here](https://chinmaytuw.medium.com/analyzing-video-game-sales-since-1980-42d23ea7b59f).

## Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements<a name="licensing"></a>

I got the data from Kaggle.  You can find the Licensing for the data and other descriptive information at the Kaggle link available [here](https://www.kaggle.com/gregorut/videogamesales).
